So we had a look at how we can integrate middleware into our next project and how we can actually do
more on this server than just pre-rendered pages.
Now if you know that you're going to write a lot of source code and you want to use a different approach
than the one shown in the last video where you have to register your middleware and that server middleware
array you can also start with a different starting template.
So let's use create next app again.
Let's create a new folder server side focus for example and you can name this whatever you want.
Confirm the name and the description it gives you.
And now you can choose a different template like for example of one using Express.
So let's use that.
Still no UI framework.
Let's pick universal mode still.
No X has modules.
No iest Lind.
My name is fine.
And now this will give you a different starting template which still uses the pages folder and so on
but which also has a deeper integration with Express.
Right from the start.
Let's take a look once this is finished.
So the installation did finish now as you can see we still got a page this folder and this new project
middleware folder that's all the same.
But we also get a new server Fuller.
And if you look at the package Doug chase and fall you'll see that the scripts are different scripts
now.
They now actually start an express server node express server living in that server in next fall.
And here you start with a complete express app that also use this next.
But that might look more familiar to you if you are a node express developer here.
It's really clear to see that next is just one step and the entire process where we render pages with
it and use it as a middleware Darfur.
But prior to doing this we can register average middle whereas we can set up our own API.
Still we can of course work with multiple files.
We can set up the Express router.
This all works.
The important thing I still want to highlight though is you will still use next to pre-rendered your
pages on the server you still have a single page application on the server and then next NDU is not
your templating engine for your express application where you have routes and then return different
views for the different routes your routes are not registered on the server in the Express router.
This is all handled by next and it should be dessous the roll.
Next place it pre-rendered pages it is where of the view routes it handles everything about that.
You can now use Express to build your own API to which you still connect with Ajax requests behind the
scenes this is really important to keep in mind this is always the separation you have.
You still create the pre-rendered single page map but you can write your own API with your own suicide
code which you can connect to from your client side application.